Alright, so let's first define agents. Okay, so believe it or not, one of the most difficult things from this entire deep dive into AI
agents for me was just the actual definition of an AI agent. Probably because it's just such a new field and people are still trying
to figure out what even it is and like how it works. So before watching this video, if you were also confused,
I promise you it is not you. Let me walk you through this. The easiest way to first define AI agents is the given example of what
is not an AI agent. What is definitely not an AI agent is if you just ask an AI to do something for you, otherwise known as one shot
prompting. Anyways, okay, so what is definitely not an AI agent is if you're just asking AI to do something directly. For example,
if you just go to ChatGBT and write, please write out an essay on topic X from start to finish in one go, you'll still get a response and
it'll still be like coherent and on topic, but are probably also be quite vague and probably not what you're looking for. On the other hand,
if you use an agentic workflow, that will significantly improve your results. And what that would look like is to break down that overarching
task into different steps. Like first, maybe writing an outline for the topic, consider if you maybe need to do some web research, then you might
write your first draft, consider what part of that draft may need more revision or more research, revise your draft before ultimately coming up
with the essay. A non agentic workflow is just from start to finish and you're done. While an agentic workflow is more a circular iterative
process, you think and you do research, come up with an output and then you revise that and then you think you do some more research, come
up with an output and you keep doing that until you get to your final result. Non agentic workflow, straight up and down, agentic
workflow, circular. Okay, so now let's add in a little bit of complexity. You got your non agentic workflow, then you got your agentic
workflow, then you have a third level, which is a truly autonomous AI agent. This is when an AI can completely independently figure out the exact
steps, which tools to use, go through that circular process of revising things by itself to finally come up with an output. This is the level that we
want our AI agents to become. But currently, as of the time of this filming at least, we're not quite there yet. We're still focusing on this second
level of agentic workflows, where there's certain agentic components to it, but it's not fully autonomous yet. But honestly, with speed that AI is
developing, who knows, maybe in like two months, that's gonna happen.
