So first, what is an LLM? Is it different from AI? And how is ChatGPT related to all of this?
LLMs stand for Large Language Models, which is a type of neural network that's trained on
massive amounts of text data. It's generally trained on data that can be found online.
Everything from web scraping to books to transcripts, anything that is text-based
can be trained into a large language model. And taking a step back, what is a neural network?
A neural network is essentially a series of algorithms that try to recognize patterns
in data. And really what they're trying to do is simulate how the human brain works.
And LLMs are a specific type of neural network that focus on understanding natural language.
And as mentioned, LLMs learn by reading tons of books, articles, internet text,
and there's really no limitation there. And so how do LLMs differ from traditional programming?
Well, with traditional programming, it's instruction-based, which means if X,
then Y. You're explicitly telling the computer what to do. You're giving it a set of instructions
to execute. But with LLMs, it's a completely different story. You're teaching the computer
not how to do things, but how to learn how to do things. And this is a much more flexible approach
and is really good for a lot of different applications where previously, traditional
coding could not accomplish them. So one example application is image recognition.
With image recognition, traditional programming would require you to hard code every single rule
for how to, let's say, identify different letters. So A, B, C, D. But if you're handwriting these
letters, everybody's handwritten letters look different. So how do you use traditional
programming to identify every single possible variation? Well, that's where this AI approach
comes in. Instead of giving a computer explicit instructions for how to identify a handwritten
letter, you instead give it a bunch of examples of what handwritten letters look like. And then
it can infer what a new handwritten letter looks like based on all of the examples that it has.
What also sets machine learning and large language models apart in this new approach to programming
is that they are much more flexible, much more adaptable, meaning they can learn from their
mistakes and inaccuracies and are thus so much more scalable than traditional programming.
LLMs are incredibly powerful at a wide range of tasks, including summarization, text generation,
creative writing, question and answer, programming. And if you've watched any of my videos,
you know how powerful these large language models can be. And they're only getting better.
Know that right now, large language models and AI in general are the worst they'll ever be. And as
we're generating more data on the internet, and as we use synthetic data, which means data created
by other large language models, these models are going to get better rapidly. And it's super
exciting to think about what the future holds. Now let's talk a little bit about the history and
evolution of large language models. We're going to cover just a few of the large language models
today in this section. The history of LLMs traces all the way back to the ELISA model,
which was from 1966, which was really the first language model. It had pre-programmed answers
based on keywords, it had a very limited understanding of the English language,
and like many early language models, you started to see holes in its logic after a few back and
forths in a conversation. And then after that, language models really didn't evolve for a very
long time. Although technically the first recurrent neural network was created in 1924, or RNN,
they weren't really able to learn until 1972. And these new learning language models are a
series of neural networks with layers and weights and a whole bunch of stuff that I'm not going to
get into in this video. And RNNs were really the first technology that was able to predict
the next word in a sentence, rather than having everything pre-programmed for it. And that was
really the basis for how current large language models work. And even after this and the advent
of deep learning in the early 2000s, the field of AI evolved very slowly with language models
far behind what we see today. This all changed in 2017, where the Google DeepMind team released
a research paper about a new technology called Transformers. And this paper was called Attention
is All You Need. And a quick side note, I don't think Google even knew quite what they had published
at that time. But that same paper is what led OpenAI to develop ChatGPT. So obviously,
other computer scientists saw the potential for the Transformers architecture. With this new
Transformers architecture, it was far more advanced. It required decreased training time,
and it had many other features like self-attention, which I'll cover later in this video.
Transformers allowed for pre-trained large language models like GPT-1, which was developed by OpenAI
in 2018. It had 117 million parameters, and it was completely revolutionary but soon to be
outclassed by other LLMs. Then after that, BERT was released, B-E-R-T, in 2018. That had 340 million
parameters and had bidirectionality, which means it had the ability to process text in both directions,
which helped it have a better understanding of context. And as comparison, a unidirectional
model only has an understanding of the words that came before the target text. And after this,
LLMs didn't develop a lot of new technology, but they did increase greatly in scale. GPT-2 was
released in early 2019 and had 2.5 billion parameters. Then GPT-3 in June of 2020 with
175 billion parameters. And it was at this point that the public started noticing large language
models. GPT had a much better understanding of natural language than any of its predecessors.
And this is the type of model that powers ChatGPT, which is probably the model that you're most
familiar with. And ChatGPT became so popular because it was so much more accurate than anything
anyone had ever seen before. And it was really because of its size. And because it was now built
into this chatbot format, anybody could jump in and really understand how to interact with this
model. ChatGPT 3.5 came out in December of 2022 and started this current wave of AI that we see
today. Then in March 2023, GPT-4 was released and it was incredible and still is incredible to this
day. It had a whopping reported 1.76 trillion parameters and uses likely a mixture of experts
approach, which means it has multiple models that are all fine tuned for specific use cases. And
then when somebody asks a question to it, it chooses which of those models to use. And then
they added multimodality and a bunch of other features. And that brings us to where we are
today. All right, now let's talk about how LLMs actually work in a little bit more detail. The
process of how large language models work can be split into three steps. The first of these steps
is called tokenization. And there are neural networks that are trained to split long text
into individual tokens. And a token is essentially about three fourths of a word. So if it's a shorter
word like high or that or there, it's probably just one token. But if you have a longer word
like summarization, it's going to be split into multiple pieces. And the way that tokenization
happens is actually different for every model. Some of them separate prefixes and suffixes.
Let's look at an example. What is the tallest building? So what is the tall-est building are
all separate tokens. And so that separates the suffix off of tallest, but not building,
because it is taking the context into account. And this step is done so models can understand
each word individually, just like humans. We understand each word individually and as groupings
of words. And then the second step of LLMs is something called embeddings. The large language
models turns those tokens into embedding vectors, turning those tokens into essentially a bunch of
numerical representations of those tokens, numbers. And this makes it significantly easier for the
computer to read and understand each word and how the different words relate to each other.
And these numbers all correspond with the position in an embeddings vector database. And then the
final step in the process is transformers, which we'll get to in a little bit.
